# Fintechs - Financial Inclusion

## Analysis of the Impact of Fintechs in Financial Inclusion Index

The brazilian financial system is defined by banking concentration and high costs, however, with the coming of fintechs, this scenario changed providing accessible financial products and services to the population. In this context, the objective of this study is to evaluate the impact of the fintechs on the financial inclusion of the brazilian population. The method applied was quantitative research, with the collection of governmental and non-governmental data about fintechs and other members of the financial sector in Brazil between 2014 and 2017 to compose the financial inclusion index proposed by the Central Bank of Brazil. After the data collection and manipulation, they were used in a regression tree model to identify the best variables that could explain the index. The descriptive analysis pointed out that some fintechs variables have a moderate correlation with the index. Also, a great majority of variables related to the traditional financial system presented a high correlation with the index, which can indicate that today the traditional model predominates as the first option to enter the financial system to a great number of brazilians. The decision tree selected seven variables with high explanatory potential in which two of them was related to fintechs. There was a clear division in the decision tree, the left side represented the North, Northeast, Central-West, and Brazil, and the right represented the South and Southeast regions. Besides, both fintechs variables selected were on the right of the tree, this can be explained by the high fintech concentration in the South and Southeast, unlike the other brazilian regions. However, is important to highlight that in the other regions the presence of fintechs is smaller but with the progress of cellphones ownership, investments, and the number of fintechs it is possible that in the future the fintechs could be classified as good predictors to the financial inclusion index. Therefore, due to all that was explained the fintechs are changing the financial system in Brazil and they can be good variables to predict the financial inclusion index in the South and Southeast regions. Despite this, with the increase in cellphone ownership, investments, and the number of fintechs is possible that this pattern could be seen in the other regions of this study. Thus, with the inclusion of fintechs in the financial inclusion index, it will be possible to have more accurate data about the financial inclusion state for each brazilian region.

